# Writing-Sample

## Reflection on English teaching in China

  Due to globalization, the English language has seen a rise in popularity in China. Students in China are taught English at an early age, starting from kindergarten and continuing through college. Despite the length of time spent learning English, their proficiency in the language is lacking. According to data gathered by the EF English Proficiency Index (EF EPI), “China ranked 47 in 2018 in terms of English language skills compared to other countries in the world.” With such a low ranking, the current curriculum has proven to be ineffective, thus, new ways to teach and learn English for Chinese students should be considered.

  One reason for low English proficiency level in China is related to Chinese population. Due to the considerable population in China, it is not surprising to hear that China tops the list as having the largest class size. According to a survey published on THE EDUCATOR website, “there are 48.8 students per class in China.” Overcrowded classroom presents a challenge for majority of teachers due to the limitation of resources and time allotted to the students. The common solution for teachers is to implement standardized curriculum for all students. However, using one-size-fits-all methods might satisfy some students’ learning goals, while making smart students feel boring and discouraging their learning passion. After all, students’ background, prior knowledge, differences in learning styles, interests, engagement, and motivation make everyone unique in class. Therefore, using one-size-fits-all method for teaching is definitely not successful for learning including foreign language education.

  One of my courses in MED program in Foreign Language Education (FLE), I learned the effectiveness and importance of differentiated instruction (DI) in education. Differentiated instruction is an approach of teaching and learning for students of differing readiness levels, interests, and modes of learning within the same classroom (Stradling & Saunders,1993).

  Students who have different motivation, interests, learning style can be instructed by differentiated instruction during the same class, which definitely lack in Chinese classroom setting.

  Differentiated instruction varies in content, process and product. “The intent of differentiated instruction is to maximize each student’s growth and individual success by meeting each student where he or she is and assisting in the learning process.” (Hall, 2002). Differentiation is based on a set of beliefs that (a) Students vary in readiness, interest, and learning profile; (b) Personal differences influence how and what students learn; (c) Since students are individuals, they require a personal fit; (d) A differentiated classroom is, of necessity, student-centered; (e) teachers need to create a variety of paths toward essential learning goals and to help students identify the paths that work best in achieving success. (Tomlinson, 2014). To make it short, Chinese teachers should gain more practical strategies of implementing differentiated instruction or insights on how to increase the likelihood of differentiated instruction in ESL classes.
